# ASSESSMENT 5: Interview Practice Questions

Answer the following questions.

First, without external resources. Challenge yourself to answer from memory.

Then, research the question to expand on your answer. Even if you feel you have answered the question completely on your own, there is always something more to learn. Write your researched answer in your OWN WORDS.

1. What is a hash in Ruby?

Your answer: A hash in Ruby is a collection of key and value pairs. It is similar to an object in JavaScript. We can create new hashes by creating a variable name and calling the .new method on the Hash class. 
    example = Hash.new 
We can iterate over hashes by utilizing methods such as .each. If we use the .each method, we can access its individual keys and values by giving it two arguments in a specific |key, value| order.

Researched answer: Originally, Ruby hashes utilized the hash rocket => to assign values to keys, but has since adopted the JavaScript syntax for objects. With the older syntax, the key must be a symbol data type (:).
Hash rocket example: ex_hash = {:key => 'value'}
Example: ex_hash = {key: 'value'}

2. What is a gem?

Your answer: A gem is a library that can be installed in a Ruby application. RSpec, a testing framework for Ruby, is an example of a gem we can add to our Ruby app. I've used RSpec extensively to test code outputs to be the desired values and to check for any bugs.

Researched answer: The website rubygems.org has tons of community-shared gems that also show how you can add the gems to your project with documented install commands. RSpec is an example of a gem on this website. Navigating the site, we can learn to add the RSpec gem to our project using the $ gem install rspec command in our terminal.

3. What is Ruby on Rails?

Your answer: Ruby on Rails is an open-source framework that combines the Ruby language with the Rails framework and allows a user to quickly and easily create full-stack applications. Though my experience with it has been limited, it has allowed me to see how the back-end of a web application can be modified, updated, and viewed.

Researched answer: Ruby on Rails utilizes a Model-View-Controller architectural pattern. The model is the structure of the application and manages the data and logic of the app. The view is the visual representation of the app. The controller receives user input and interacts with data model objects. 

4. What is a relational database? Are there other kinds of databases?

Your answer: A relational database is a database of items that share a relation with other items within the database. An example of this would be when creating a table of books and another table of authors. They would share one item in common, a foreign key, to reference the primary key from the other table. This would be how we could link several book titles to one author.

Researched answer: There are non-relational databases that have limited functionality and have limited indexing. Some examples of sites that use relational databases are YouTube and Twitter. Facebook, Amazon, Netflix, and Google are some examples of sites that use non-relational databases.

5. What are primary keys? Why are they important?

Your answer: Primary keys are unique values given to items in a database. They are important because they can be used as the link between tables in a relational database. In my experience using Rails, I've created one table of users, then I've created a separate table of credits that are linked to individual users due to their specific primary key.

Researched answer: Primary keys are automatically generated by Active Record when a table is migrated. 

## Looking Ahead: Terms for Next Week

Research and define the following terms to the best of your ability.

1. RESTful routes: A route that provides mapping from HTTP verbs to controller CRUD actions.

2. JSON: JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation. It is a syntax that looks similar to how JavaScript objects are created (has name-value pairs).

3. ERB: ERB stands for Embedded Ruby and is a file extension that allows us to code in HTML and drop Ruby code in the view file.

4. Params: It refers to the parameters that are passed to the controller from a get or post request. 

5. API: Application Programming Interface. It connects apps together and transmits data in the form of JSON. 